{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab420
\pard\pardeftab420\pardirnatural\qc

\f0\b\fs30 \cf0 TPO1\
\pard\pardeftab420\pardirnatural\qj

\fs21 \cf0 Task1 \

\b0 Talk about a book you have read that was important to you for some reason. Explain why the book was important to you. Give specific details and examples to explain your answer. \
\

\b Task2\

\b0  Some people believe that television has had a positive influence on society. Others believe it has had a negative influence on society. Which do you agree with and why? Use details and examples to explain your opinion.\
\

\b Task3\

\i\b0 Reading materials:  \
\pard\pardeftab420\pardirnatural\qc

\i0\b \cf0 Letter in the Centerville College News\
\pard\pardeftab420\pardirnatural\qj

\b0 \cf0 The administration has announced plans to acquire a new sculpture for campus. We should all oppose this plan. The university\'92s financial pool financial condition led it to increase the price for campus housing and tuition by 15% this past year. Surely then it is in no financial position to purchase such an expensive sculpture. Moreover, just look at the sculpture: several 60-foot long steel plates, jutting out of the earth at odd angles. It\'92s so large; it\'92ll take up all the green space in front of the campus center! This is public space that should be reserved for students to use.\
\
Question: Explain why the woman disagrees with the reasons expressed in the letter.\
\

\b Task4 \

\i\b0 Reading materials: 
\i0      \
\pard\pardeftab420\pardirnatural\qc

\b \cf0 Groupthink\
\pard\pardeftab420\pardirnatural\qj

\b0 \cf0 One process by which groups may make bad or irrational decisions is known as groupthink. Individual members of a group attempt to conform their opinions to what they believe to be the group consensus even though the result may be negative. These include the desire to be like, fear of losing a job, or even not wanting to be the one employee delaying a decision that seems inevitable. These kinds of implicit pressures to conform lead group members to ultimately make decisions that each by himself or herself, might normally not make. \
\

\i Question:
\i0  Explain groupthink and its effects using the example of the computer company.\
\

\b Task5 \

\i\b0 Question:
\i0  The speakers discuss two possible solutions to the woman\'92s problem. Briefly summarize the problem. Then sate which solution you recommend and explain why.\
\

\b Task6\

\i\b0 Question
\i0 : Using the research described by the professor, explain what scientists have learned about the mathematical abilities of babies.}